# d2africa-academy
## D2AFRICA bioinformatics tutorial

# Welcome to the Masterclass on Data Visualization for Outbreak Detection!

This masterclass will equip you with the skills to use data visualization tools to identify and analyze potential disease outbreaks.

Prerequisites:

1. Background or good understanding of biology
2. Basic understanding of genomic and bioinformatics workflow
3. No coding experience required
4. Access to computer and stable internet


Learning Outcomes:

1. Grasp fundamental concepts of phylogeny and evolutionary relationships between organisms.
2. Effectively use data visualization tools (Microreact & Phandango) to analyze outbreaks.


What You Will Learn:

1. Basis of Phylogeny: Understand the evolutionary relationships between organisms.
2. Key Tools for Outbreak Visualization: Learn Microreact and Phandango for data visualization.
3. Data Preparation: Format different file types (.csv, .tsv, .nwk) for optimal use with these tools.
4. Tailoring Visualizations: Highlight relevant outbreak patterns and insights.
5. Exporting Results: Save high-quality figures for presentations or publications.


Data Files (available in the data file folder):

Two files are needed for this data visualization MasterClasses:

Phylogenetic Tree (.nwk): A computer-readable file generated by tree-building programs.
Metadata (.csv): A comma-separated values file containing sample information such as demographics, clinical data, and geographical information.
Obtaining Geographic Coordinates:

We will use free web tools to obtain latitude and longitude for outbreak samples.D2AFRICA bioinformatics tutorial

